Dyson Carter
Dr. Xiao
ISP
December 4 2023
Term Project
        For my final project I decided to expand on PA3 ZippyBooks. I unfortunately looked at it too late and was unable to form a group so I did everything myself. Due to this I was not able to expand on the idea as much as I would like but I am still happy with my work. On PA3 I was not able to figure out MAMP so I used my parent’s windows laptop but I was able to get MAMP working on my mac so I was able to use MAMP now.  I first found a list of a lot of books online and was able to use this to make a SQL query to add a lot more books to choose from for this website. All of these books are shown on the home page as an unordered list.
        The help page is basic html where I just put some info on how each page works on the website. Some of my design choices were confusing so it is understandable why users may need some help.
        The admin page is a simple login page meant for admin use. The usernames and passwords are stored in a new table in the database called users. If the user tries to log in but the login info is not found it will just take the user back to the homepage of the website. If the user is found to be an admin it takes them to the admin page. The admin page has the exact same functionality of PA3, however, I added some back buttons as well as updated some of the wording from the template code. 
        The search page is where the user will be able to add books into their cart. Once the user searches it uses a LIKE SQL query to find all the books containing that search term. It displays all of these books as an unordered list with the price as well as a button to add to cart. The search page also checks the database to see if the book is still in stock. If a book’s quantity is at 0 it will not display the book on search to prevent it from being added to cart. The book will still appear on the home page. 
        The cart page shows the user what all is in their cart. It uses a php session array to store all of the books in the cart. When the user clears their cart the session is destroyed which effectively removes all items from the cart. When the user hits checkout the user is taken to a thank you page to show their purchase was successful. The database is updated so the quantity is lowered by one since the user just bought the book. 
I also added some visual touches with zippystyles.css to theme it around blue and gold like akron’s colors. I also used nav, main, and footer tags to streamline the layout of the website. I also added a Zippy favicon for an extra touch.
I am happy that my website works but a lot of the user experience is lacking. It is confusing how the shopping cart works and you can only buy one of each book at a time. My website is also not secure as you can easily SQL inject in the search bar. Given more time I would work on these things to improve my website.